Oh, hey guys, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap WordPress.
This chapter is called Coding the Footer.
[MUSIC]
All right,
this part should be pretty easy.
We're gonna be coding the footer down
here at the bottom of the website.
Let's jump into our code editor.
Make sure in your HTML,
go down to the footer section.
Put the footer HTML5 tag.
We don't need to add any ID to that
because it's pretty straight forward.
We're gonna add a container
class div here,
cuz we want the footer to be the full
width with that kind of gray-blue color.
But we want the container
to be within that footer so
that we can have centered content.
Call small three, and in call small three,
we're going to have the footer logo.
So we'll have a paragraph tag, and a href,
we're gonna link that to the root.
And within there we'll have an image,
the source will be assets/img/logo.png,
so just the logo.
And the alt text will be
Bootstrap to WordPress.
All right, that should be good.
Now if you save that,
move onto the next one.
So now we want another column, col-sm-6
and in there we're gonna have a nav.
So the HTML5 nav tag to be semantic.
Now I want to show you
something cool with emmet,
since I've been using it a couple times.
I wanna show you even
more power that it has.
So, say I wanna add an unordered list
with the class, with a couple classes,
and I want there to be, let's say, five
list items that have eight
tags within each of them.
So that would be a lot of hand coding and
a lot of copy and pasting.
But with Emit I can do
something like this.
So I want an unordered list
with the class of list
unstyled because that's a bootstrap class.
I want the the unordered
lists to have no styles.
No bullets, no margins, nothing like
that and also list dash inline.
So this is a Bootstrap class as well.
This will just make the LI items float
up next to each other and pretty sure
it just makes them all inline elements so
it just, they're all beside each other.
I don't want it to be a vertical list,
I want it to be horizontal.
Okay so, ul.list-unstyled.list-inline.
Now I want some children
within this unordered list.
So I would add the > symbol,
and then I'll say LI and
then if I want five of those,
I'll say times 5.
And I want those five list items
to have children as well, and
have those list items have
children of an A tag, and
now if I expand that,
we'll see what happens.
Boom, check it out.
Amazing, hey?
So, UL, class list and style list in line.
We have li items, and each of those
li items have A tags, pretty cool.
Now I can just put in the text.
Home, Blog, Resources,
Contact and
then the last one will be Sign up now.
And then this I'm gonna give
a class of sign up link.
Because I'm gonna style
it a little differently,
give it a little bit of
red text to stand out.
And then after this last column here, the
sixth column I'm gonna do another call and
that will be small three
to equal twelve and
add a paragraph with
a class of pull right.
And that is a Bootstrap helper class that
will pull this paragraph to the right,
meaning it will float it right and
will have the copyright HTML entity,
copy, there it is, 2014 Brad Hussey.
Save that, check it out.
Okay.
So there is your footer.
Basically the layout is nearly perfect.
It's just we don't have
the right styles within it.
So then just head to your styles,
your CSS and scroll down.
Past the sign up ID's where you style
just sign up section because that would be
under there in the layout, there they are.
So under your sign up button,
select a footer.
The background you want it to be that
blue-grey color, so that it's 3e4249.
And then the color of all the text will
be white, padding will be 20 pixels top,
zero on the left and right,
and ten pixels on the bottom.
Bot size 12 pixels, okay.
And now we want the paragraph tags
cause there's a few in there,
paragraph tags in bootstrap
have some margin by default.
And, we don't want any
margin in the footer.
That will mess up the layout footer.
Now, we're gonna select the a:link,
and the footer a:visited.
Cuz, when you click on a link and
it has been visited it will by default
turn to a purple color or a blue color.
We just want to style those and make sure
that all the links are just flat white.
However, when you style it like that, that
means the hover will also be affected.
So we want to select the a in the footer,
and
when it's hovered we want
the color to be dd5638.
And we're gonna select
the footer li sign up link.
Remember that list item
with the specific class and
when you hover over that one
actually I jumped the gun there.
We're just gonna style the A first.
The color of that one will also be dd5638.
So when you hover over the traditional
links they'll turn this salmon color,
but the sign up link will
be salmon color by default.
However, when you hover over
that I want it to turn bold.
So I'm gonna select that and just copy and
paste it, made a little change and
then I want the font weight to be bold.
So save that let's check it out.
All right, here is our footer so
you can see down here.
We've got our logo,
we got the background color,
expanding the full width
better small text, the links,
the list item when you hover over each
of them, they turn the red color.
And then when you hover
that it turns bold.
And then we have the copy write over here.
There is one thing that I noticed we
might as well clean it up right now.
When you hover, you get an underline.
I don't want underlines.
So go back to your code and if you scroll
right back up to the global section.
And we're gonna do a little
typography styling here.
So let's say under the H4 we're
going to select the a:link,
a:visited.
Now, this is just a specific.
I'm just gonna make sure all the links
by default are that salmon color
instead of the default
Bootstrap blue 5638.
So any additional links that we add
when we add to our blog section or
our resources contact page, all that
sorta stuff, always will be salmon.
And then when you hover over those
links text decoration, none.
So that's the no text underline and
then the color will be
c9302c.
So that is basically
the default link styles but
we're overriding them in the footer
with the white and the salmon colors.
Go ahead and say that and
let's check it out.
Down here in the footer you should see.
Now when you hover they just change color.
They don't give underlines.
It looks so much better.
Perfect, all right.
That's it.
In the next lecture we're just going to
do a few small things and style the media
queries a little bit, and a few extra
CSS elements that we may have missed.
Alright see you there.
[MUSIC]